17-04-2025

heat heat
heat heat
[Music]
hello namaskar this is first post and
you're watching Vantage with me Pali
[Music]
[Music]
Shaga is Donald Trump crashing the
global economy the numbers and
projections do not look good economists
and regulators have sounded an alarm
america's central bank is worried and
markets are still bleeding meanwhile
Europe has sent its Trump card to
Washington can Italian Prime Minister
Georgia Maloney convince the US
president to drop tariffs in Asia China
is wooing India to soften the tariff
blow from quick visas to full compliance
Beijing is offering everything on a
platter they're turning on the charm in
Southeast Asia too after bullying
neighbors and militarizing the South
China Sea Xi Jinping talks about an
Asian
family over in Pakistan the army chief
is ranting about partition and how
Pakistanis are quote unquote different
from Hindus we'll discuss why in West
Asia will Israel take over Gaza their
latest statement says it is part of the
military
plan a report on the blue smart fraud
and what it means for India's startup
story do tourist taxes work why are more
and more countries imposing them why has
the US army taken over the Mexico border
complete with tanks and combat ready
troops and is there life beyond Earth
scientists say they've found the
strongest evidence yet all this and more
coming up the headlines
first russia warns Germany against
supplying Taurus missiles to Ukraine
moscow says this would be a direct
participation by Berlin in the conflict
ongoing outgoing Chancellor Olaf Scholes
had ruled out sending the missiles to
Kiev but Germany's chancellor in waiting
Friedri Med says has said that he's not
opposed to the move the US and the UK
have already supplied longrange missiles
to
Ukraine russia removes the Taliban from
its list of banned terrorist groups
since the US withdrew from Afghanistan
in 2021 Moscow has taken steps to
normalize relations with the Taliban
authorities last October the group's top
diplomat met Russian foreign minister in
Moscow the Taliban was outlawed by
Russia in 2003
clashes erupt between the Sudin army and
the paramilitary rapid support forces
more than 50 people have been killed in
the besieged capital capital city of
North
Dur the violence comes days after the
paramilitary killed more than 400 people
there the RSF has ramped up its attacks
on the Darur city ever since the army
recaptured the capital
Ku Nvidia CEO holds talks with Chinese
leaders in Beijing this comes after the
US curbed sales of its Edge 20
artificial intelligence chips to to
China nvidia is a key provider of chips
used in AI it is trying to maintain
sales in China as US President Trump
wages a trade war with
Beijing and Myanmar's Huna releases
nearly 5,000 prisoners claims the
amnesty is to mark the country's new new
year
festivities 13 foreign nationals have
also been pardoned critics allege that
the Huta has arrested thousands of
protesters and activists since the 2021
coup
[Music]
[Music]
in the last two decades there have been
two major economic crashes in 2008 2008
the US banking sector collapsed it
caused a worldwide recession then 12
years later in 2020 the Wuhan virus
struck it triggered the largest economic
crisis in more than 100 years now we are
in 2025 and the world is on the brink of
another
crash but it's also different this time
because this crisis has been crafted by
just one man US President Donald Trump
he is singlehandedly rattling the global
economy the world's top economists and
regulators are sounding alarms today the
World Trade Organization has weighed in
it's better known as the WTO the World
Trade Organization the WTO says that
global trade will shrink this year and
it blames Donald Trump's tariffs for
this the WTO has slashed its trade
forecast earlier it expected goods trade
to grow by 2.7% that was the forecast
for 2025 2.7% growth but now it predicts
a drop of
0.2% and it says that the worst hit will
be North America it will see the
steepest decline in trade so the message
is clear tariffs are tearing economies
apart the WT the WTO chief specifically
highlighted the US China divide she
called their trade war and I'm quoting
really worrying the escalating trade
tensions between the United States and
China pose a significant risk of a sharp
contraction in their bilateral trade our
preliminary projections suggest that
merchandise trade between these two
economies could decrease by as much as
80% you don't need a rocket scientist to
figure this out american tariffs come
with consequences they have raised
uncertainty they can shrink trade they
will certainly hit exports and
ultimately they will slow down growth
the US Federal Reserve agrees that's the
American Central Bank its chair Jerome
Powell is concerned he says tariffs are
putting the central bank in a bind
because tariffs will make things more
expensive this will raise
inflation and it will force the Fed to
raise interest rates if they raise rates
loans will become expensive it will hurt
economic growth and it will lead to more
unemployment
the level of tariff increases announced
so far is significantly larger than
anticipated and the same is likely to be
true of the economic effects which will
include higher inflation and slower
growth
powell says this is a challenging
scenario he has compared the situation
to a penalty shootout where the the Fed
is the goalkeeper jerome Powell says the
Fed must die one way or the other it can
either fight inflation or it can protect
jobs it may not be able to do both and
this is going to be a tough
call this warning shook the American
markets the Dow Jones fell nearly 700
points in yesterday's trade the NASDAQ
dropped more than 3% technology stocks
let this
slide the overall investor mood is grim
it is not a recession yet but investors
say they can see it
coming according to the Bank of America
global investors are spooked the bank
has conducted a survey it spoke to 164
global fund managers they manage assets
worth almost $400 billion now these
managers are rethinking their
investments in the US they want to cut
their holdings in US equities
almost half of them believe that a hard
landing is likely that means a sharp
slowdown with falling growth rising
layoffs and real financial
pain in February just 6% of these
investors felt that this was possible
but now 49% of them say that a hard
landing is the most likely
outcome here's another interesting
fallout indian exports to the US surged
last month in the month of March total
exports from India crossed $86 billion
which is a record high they shipped
goods worth $10 billion to the US alone
now this is a jump of 35% compared to
last
year and this spike is thanks to
tariffs companies rushed to ship goods
before the tariffs kicked
in of course the surge is temporary
possibly a one-off chinese imports into
India have also soared they jumped by
25% last month as a result India's trade
deficit with China has crossed $99
billion long story short the trade
climate is precarious trump has paused
tariffs for 90 days this should have
calmed markets and investors but that
has not happened in fact the opposite is
happening fears of a recession are
growing this time not from a virus or a
credit crisis but from an ego trip that
turned into a policy decision in
Washington
its ripple effects across the world are
just beginning to show
[Music]
[Music]
Tough borders big on tradition and
unapologetically
nationalistic it is strongman politics
with a personal touch no wonder they get
along since Donald Trump was elected to
office George Maloney has met him thrice
and she's set to do it again the Italian
prime minister is in Washington DC she
will meet the US president in a few
moments from now and on the agenda is a
deal a trade deal not just for Italy but
for the whole of
Europe can she manage it is Georgia
Maloney Europe's Trump
whisperer a quick primer first the
European Union is one of America's
biggest allies and trading partners in
2024 it was the largest single market
for US exports the
EU this month Donald Trump announced his
new round of tariffs and Europe did not
walk away unscathed 20% on all imports
and 25% on steel aluminium and cars this
is what the US slapped on the
EU europe retaliated with 25% reciprocal
tariffs but then Trump hit a 90-day
pause so Europe responded in kind they
pause too but now they face a stark
choice should the EU negotiate or should
it
retaliate for the moment they've chosen
to talk they want a trade deal to make
sure that the they can in they can evade
the US tariffs they want a deal for that
and so they've sent Georgia Maloney why
her because she has Trump's attention
they're hoping that she can convince him
to strike a deal earlier today Maloney
spoke to Ursula Vanderlayan the
president of the European Commission the
two are said to have coordinated her
messaging on what she's going to say to
Trump they discussed that so Europe is
counting on Maloney to get the job
done but what's in it for her well this
is a leader who has positioned herself
as a bridge between Europe and Trump's
America she has been panned for her
closeness to the new US administration
but the Italian prime minister has
maintained that it will pay off and this
is her test
i'm convinced that we must work to avert
a trade war in every possible way that
would benefit no one neither the United
States nor Europe which of course does
not exclude if necessary also having to
imagine adequate responses to defend our
production plus there's national
interest involved here the US and Italy
have a trade surplus of more than $40
billion so Rome exports more products
than it imports from Washington the top
exports include vehicles fashion food
and
beverages so Maloney is feeling some
domestic pressure too she must shield
Italian businesses from American
tariffs the US is clearly a key market
for us it is clear that the introduction
of new tariffs would have heavy
repercussions for Italian producers i
personally think it would also be an
injustice for many US citizens because
it would limit the possibility of buying
and consuming our excellence only to
those who can afford to spend more
so right now she's on a mission
impossible not everyone is optimistic
about it reports suggest that some
European officials were not in favor of
this visit they think it undermines
European
unity that Europe should put up a united
defense and not depend on individual
friendships many also fear that Maloney
will freelance that she will cut a good
deal for Italy and leave the rest of of
the EU in the dust now we'll have to
wait and see how this plays out but we
do know that the Italian prime minister
is no stranger to balancing acts since
taking office she has walked the
diplomatic tie rope signaling solidarity
with Europe on Ukraine while maintaining
ideological sympathy with Trump she's
condemned Russia's invasion but she's
also avoided the zealous moralism of
some European counterparts she talks to
Macron and she also talks to Elon Musk
so Georgia Maloney knows how to work
with all
camps but this is a risky gambit if she
fails Europe may not forgive her if she
succeeds she will be hailed as the
unlikely savior of the transatlantic
alliance so there is a lot riding on her
back the next few hours will tell us if
Georgia Maloney is just Trump's friend
or Europe's
fixerinchief now let's talk about China
it is knocking on India's doors once
again with some urgency this time the US
has slapped 245% tariffs on China
striking a deal is out of the question
at the moment so Beijing is looking for
backups and India is a fantastic option
for them chinese firms are warming up to
Indian regulators they are willing to
accept New Delhi's terms they're keen to
do business with India and in India and
they're ready to take a backseat in
joint ventures anything to get them an
entry more and more Chinese companies
are ready to accept
this like the Shanghai highly
group they make air conditioners and
hire which is an electronics company
reports say that they're open to India's
rules now because if they lose the
American market they will need India and
if they wait too long other competitors
could take the lead companies from South
Korea Japan and Europe they're all
fighting for the same market share so
Chinese companies are feeling the heat
and Beijing is trying to help them out
china is ready to work with India to
view and handle China India relations
from a strategic and long-term
perspective under the strategic guidance
of the leaders of both countries taking
the 75th anniversary of diplomatic
relations as an opportunity China will
work with India to enhance strategic
mutual trust strengthen exchanges and
cooperation in various fields deepen
communication and coordination on major
international affairs jointly maintain
peace and tranquility in the China India
border areas and promote the healthy and
stable development of bilateral
relations
so China wants to improve ties with
India and it is starting with the
lowhanging fruits like visas china is
fasttracking visas to Indians this year
they have issued more than 85,000 visas
to Indians already 85,000 so far this
year the Chinese embassy wants more
Indians to visit they have simplified
the visa rules no appointments to file
applications no biometrics for short
trips and fast approvals that's what the
Chinese embassy is promising basically
China is trying to build a new
image it is promising a more open a
friendly China to Indians and the
message comes directly from President Xi
Jinping earlier this month he wrote a
letter to the Indian President he spoke
of a dragon elephant tango a metaphor
for the two
nations working
together but India remains cautious
commerce Minister Push Goyel has made
India's position clear he said this on
multiple forums in recent days that
India is not encouraging Chinese
investment and that trusted partners
would get priority like countries from
Europe and North America nations that
play by the rules and offer equal
opportunities they will be prioritized
that's what Goyel has repeatedly
underlined in his public statements he
highlighted the case of BYD the Chinese
EV maker
byd is the world's largest seller of EVs
it wanted to build a factory in India
but New Delhi rejected the proposal push
[ __ ] has said that it is a no to
BYD india's position on Chinese
companies is quite clear they will have
to play by by India's rules and that
means no dumping and no backdoor
deals which happens to be a growing risk
for India trade data shows a growing
imbalance in 202425 India's trade
deficit with China crossed $99 billion
chinese imports continue to rise
especially in in electronics and
consumer goods and now with the US
tariffs biting Chinese firms might dump
even more goods in India this is a major
concern for the Indian economy and it
will have a bearing on the trade
negotiations with the
US let me explain how Donald Trump has
singled out China in his trade war but
at the same time he has imposed tariffs
on every US trade
partner why the others one reason for
that was rerouting experts believe that
Trump wanted to close all back doors so
that China could not sneak in goods via
other
territories and that is why India must
be careful it cannot be seen as helping
China dodge the tariffs even by
mistake this could backfire on New Delhi
it could hurt ties with Washington and
that is why the government of India is
setting up a watch unit basically an
agency to track cheap imports and stop
rerouting the unit's larger goal is to
protect local players and to make sure
that Indian firms do not end up helping
China dodge US
tariffs so while Beijing may be warming
up to New Delhi New Delhi is in no rush
to strike deals it is choosing partners
carefully and keeping it its eyes wide
open
[Music]
family is a funny
It can be inherited it can be chosen it
can be imposed but in the case of Xi
Jinping it can also be
imagined let me explain how the Chinese
president is on a tour a whirlwind tour
of Southeast Asia the first stop was
Vietnam the second was Malaysia and now
the third stop is Cambodia so three
countries in one week all stitched
together by one grand narrative the
Asian
family that is Xi Jinping's new business
pitch the Asian family
but who is in this family and why is the
land grabbing dragon suddenly promoting
brotherhood the answer lies in his tour
today Xi Jinping landed in Nenen the
capital of
Cambodia do you know who was waiting for
him on the tarmac cambodia's king
Norodi not a diplomat not a minister but
the monarch himself rolling out the red
carpet personally this speaks volumes
about the weight of this visit cambodia
is no stranger to Beijing's embrace
china is after all their largest
creditor china has invested in a lot of
projects in Cambodia like roads and
airports fun fact Cambodia is also a
major exporter to the
US and most of those businesses are
Chinese-owned so yes this visit is about
diplomacy but more than that it is about
trade donald Trump is waging a trade war
he imposed tariffs on the entire world
then he paused them for 90 days in this
period countries should try to secure a
deal with the
US but there's no relief for China china
faces 245% tariffs from the US so Xi
Jinping's visit has one main purpose to
present an alternative to the US to
pitch China as a reliable trading
partner
in the face of shocks to global order
and economic globalization China and
Malaysia will stand with countries in
the region to combat the undercurrents
of geopolitical and camp-based
confrontation overcome the
countercurrens of unilateralism and
protectionism and safeguard the
promising prospects for development in
our shared Asian home
she's message is simple resist America's
bullying join hands with China and
become part of this wholesome Asian
family and it's a message he's repeated
multiple times in the last one week in
Vietnam he spoke about shared history
protecting multiculturalism and
multilateralism and opposing
hijgemony vietnam is China's biggest
trade partner in the region so it was
quite the charm offensive
i chose Vietnam as the first stop in my
first visit this year this amply shows
how highly China and the Communist Party
values China Vietnam relations
then in Malaysia she tried to rake up
the RZ there were multiple deals
handshakes and laughter china is
Malaysia's largest trading partner in
2024 China Malaysia trade touched $212
billion so the push was to build on it
as of today the two countries have
united and cooperated to build a common
destiny sino Malaysian relations are
entering a new golden age the long
history of friendship between China and
Malaysia is nurturing growing in
cultural integration and being
sublimated in the midst of mutual
benefits
and now it is Cambodia the final stop of
his family vacation but here's the
problem this Asian family is just an
elegant metaphor
it is divided and constantly harassed by
China they may share history borders and
even cultures but they also share
historical grievances territorial
disputes and trade battles xi Jinping
may be extending his arms right now but
until recently he was making news for
drawing red lines for using trade as a
weapon for militarizing the South China
Sea and for sending warning shots to
neighbors who dared to lean west
now he suddenly wants a family reunion
because he needs these neighbors to
fight the trade war with Trump he's
offering brotherhood a family an Asian
century will Southeast Asia take up this
offer and these countries aren't exactly
spoiled for choice but they must
remember that the dragon has a fork
tongue they should read the fine print
if they don't want to be the meat in a
trade war sandwich
southeast Asia must be cautious these
countries want investments from everyone
they want trade with everyone but
loyalty is to no one so they're smiling
for the photos signing the deals and
quietly hedging their
bets again because Xi Jinping may want a
family but here's the thing about
families they never forget the past and
they don't trust the one who wants to be
big brother
let's turn to Pakistan now where the
country's leader is in a mood to rant if
you're waiting for Shabbash Sharif to
pop up do not bother i'm talking about
their real leader Pakistan's army chief
Aim
Munir he spoke at a convention in
Islamabad recently he sounded like those
old uncles at a dinner angry resentful
and hateful
first he won back the clock to 1947 he
spoke about the two nation theory
propounded by Muhammad Ali Jina listen
to this
possible aspect of life our religion is
different our customs are different our
traditions are different our thoughts
are different our ambitions are
different that was the foundation of the
two nation theory that was laid there
that we are two nations we are not one
nation so because of that our
forefathers they struggled mounted that
incessant struggle to create this
country
now some background here before 1947
there was no Pakistan indian Hindus and
Muslims used to live together but Jina
demanded a separate nation a nation
exclusively for Muslims he justified
this demand using the two nation theory
he claimed that Hindus and Muslims could
never live together in harmony thus a
Muslim Pakistan was
necessary why is General Munir talking
about this now almost eight decades
later we'll come to that in a bit first
listen to what the general said on
Kashmir government stance on Kashmir is
absolutely clear it was our juggler when
it is our juggler we will not forget it
and we will not leave our Kashmiri
brethren in their heroic struggle what
they are waging against the Indian
occupation
the general is right about one thing we
are very different countries and
societies india is exporting iPhones and
laptops to the world pakistan is
exporting terrorists india is planning
to send people to space pakistan is
sending beggars to Saudi Arabia india is
aiding and assisting low-income
countries pakistan is living loan to
loan india is pushing back against
Chinese expansionism pakistan is
willingly becoming a Chinese colony
india's cricket league has become the
envy of the world meanwhile Pakistan's
cricket league is gifting hair dryers to
top
performers i could go on but you get the
gist this is a hateful and provocative
rant by the Pakistani army chief india
has criticized his comments new Delhi is
asking Pakistan to vacate Kashmir how
can anything foreign be there in a
juggler vein uh it is
uh this is a union territory of India
its only relationship with Pakistan is
the vacation of illegally occupied
territories by that country
but what triggered all of this what
awoke the sleeping jenna inside General
Munir simple
circumstances pakistan is at its weakest
point in decades let's look at their
economy first 40% people in Pakistan
live in poverty the currency has
depreciated and listen to this 177% in
the last decade unemployment has risen
from 1.5% to 7% total debt stands at
$280 billion which is around 83% of
their GDP for most countries this would
be the primary challenge fixing their
economy but not for Pakistan their
biggest challenge is security pakistan's
provinces are virtually in open
rebellion balo insurgents are striking
at will last month they hijacked a train
in Balojasthan at least 60 people were
killed in that attack this week they
targeted a bus carrying security
personnel at least three were killed and
16 injured now this is a big province in
open rebellion balojasthan it's a very
big province it makes up 44% of
Pakistan's total area if you lose that
you lose nearly half of your
country so that's Baloasan next is Kibar
Paktunwa this is home base for the
Pakistani Taliban their mission is to
topple the regime in Islamabad how by
striking at the military last year
around 1,600 people were killed in
terror attacks in Pakistan almost 700 of
them were security personnel 700 in one
year so that's two provinces with an
active
insurgency next you have Pakistan
occupied Kashmir last year major protest
broke out there some political factions
in P have threatened to
revolt they had a warning for the army
last month they said dead bodies of
soldiers would be found in
dams it is in this backdrop that Aim
Munir took the stage his country is
pulling apart his soldiers are being
hunted and his economy is in ruins
yesterday the general issued a warning
to these insurgents and even here he
dragged in India listen in you think
terrorists they can take away the
destiny of the country from
us if this great Pakistani nation and
the Pakistani armed
forces if 1.3 million Indian army with
all their
wherewithal if they cannot intimidate us
and they cannot coersse us these
terrorists can subdue the armed forces
of Pakistan
if you're a Pakistani there are many
ways to interpret this a desperate rant
a declaration of war on insurgents or an
exercise in hate but for India the
message is quite clear pakistan has no
intention of fixing its relations with
New Delhi it is not going to abandon the
Kashmir issue either if anything they
could double down because Pakistan's
generals are masters of
distraction economy not doing well
rewind to the two nation theory no jobs
for the youth appeal to their Islamic
beliefs no end to insurgent attacks in
provinces make up an imaginary threat
from
India aimuni did all of this with one
speech
yesterday i'm sure he saw it as a
glorious moment in his career of
election rigging and meddling but in
reality he looked weak and
afraid we now turn to West Asia israel
has made a declaration there that the
annexation of Gaza was part of the
plan this was said by Israel's defense
minister he confirmed that Israeli
troops now occupy half of
Gaza so is this still about defeating
Hamas or is it about redrawing borders
half of the Gaza Strip is under Israel's
control and they want full control
israel calls it security palestinians
call it theft
for now Hamas has the hostages and
Israel's operations are only
intensifying so what happens if Israel
completely controls Gaza here's our
report the Israeli army is increasing
its operations in
Gaza more troops and tanks have been
deployed in the strip
they are moving doorto-door conducting
operations and hoping to find the
hostages that are still being held
captive by
Hamas so why is the operation
intensifying
again israel has made an announcement
that the annexation of Gaza is part of
the military
plan israeli Defense Minister Israel
Katz made the statement while standing
in northern Gaza katz added that Israeli
troops now occupy half of Gaza and they
will not let go of the territory
we will never allow this kind of enemy
to threaten our communities and our
citizens and therefore the operation
that is currently taking place is
pressuring Hamas to first release the
hostages and the more it persists in its
refusal the more we will intensify the
blows it will suffer until it is
defeated and all the hostages are
returned
and the Israeli defense minister had the
approval of his leader prime Minister
Benjamin Netanyahu said Hamas is to be
blamed for all the destruction
they are striking the enemy and Hamas
will suffer more and more blows we
insist that they Hamas release our
hostages and we insist on having
achieved all our war goals and we are
doing it thanks to our heroic fighters
currently Israeli troops are heavily
deployed in northern Gaza they control
the Arez crossing the Gaza city and are
pushing toward the city of Khan Ununice
but the advances are being made from two
directions the Israeli army is also
advancing from the south israel already
controls the Rafa crossing and they have
created a buffer zone between central
and southern Gaza basically the Israeli
army is splitting Gaza into multiple
pieces and slowly taking control of the
strip israel says this is going to
corner Hamas and force them to release
the hostages but the Palestinians are
furious there is no safe place where are
we even supposed to go people ran to the
sea last night trying to save themselves
throwing themselves into the water yes
people ran to the sea where are people
supposed to go where are we supposed to
go
lebanon Jordan and Gaza have objected to
the recent Israeli statements they say
Israel has no right to annex Gaza but
Israel has the support of the United
States
israeli Prime Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu met US President Donald Trump
just last week
trump said Hamas is the problem and they
need to release the hostages first
because if you sit down and talk to them
as I have what they went through is
incredible but we're making progress
we're dealing with Israel we're dealing
with
Hamas and it's it's a nasty grip
so Israel is moving forward with
military operations in Gaza despite
thousands dead and nearly a million
displaced israel's Gaza annexation plan
threatens to push an already volatile
region towards a broader
conflict the honeymoon is over for
Indian startups no more celebratory
treatment celebrity treatment no more
endless checks their models and their
integrity are being
scrutinized and how are they holding up
not too well if you live in Delhi or
Mumbai you must have seen Blue Smart
Cabs it's a taxi service like Uber and
Ola except all Blue Smart Cabs are
electric users loved their service the
the cars were better maintained the
drivers were always helpful and the cost
just slightly more than Uber or Ola but
this week Blues Smart shut down its
operations the reason fraud by its
founders let me introduce them first
bluesmart was founded by two brothers in
2019 anmol and Punit Singh Jagi along
with Bluesmart they ran another company
Jensen Soloul Engineering Limited now
comes the complicated part the brothers
would purchase EVs through Gensol
Limited then lease these EVs to Blue
Smart that's how they operated this cab
fleet to buy the EVs Jensenol took loans
from the government from governmentr run
lenders how much loan around
830 cr rupees to buy 6,400 EVs that's
around $97 million but only 568 crores
were spent to buy EVs the remaining 262
cr rupees were not accounted
for then last month Newsmart defaulted
on its lease payment that's when
regulators ordered a probe and what they
found was shocking the brothers were
diverting this money 43 crores were
spent on buying a luxury apartment in
Gorga 11 cr rupees were transferred to
relatives and 26
lakhs spent on American golf kits
let me recap that for you the Jagi
brothers took loans to buy EVs some of
it was used to buy electric cars the
rest of the money was used for their own
personal expenses more than 260 crores
this is corporate fraud of the highest
order and it's probably the end of Blue
Smart
story this was an aspiring challenger to
Uber but reports say that it will now be
absorbed by Uber sort of like their
green fleet
this is also a big blow to India's
startup ecosystem because it's not about
one company failing it's about corporate
fraud these sort of things create a
perception about the whole sector
perception that could scare away
investors also because it's not a
one-off in 2023 a car service startup
faced the heat it was called Go Mechanic
their founders admitted to financial
errors in their books in 2022 it was
online commerce startup Trell they too
were accused of
fraud the same year Bharat Pay accused
one of its founders of fraud Asher
Grover of Shark Tank fame later both
sides reached a settlement and finally
we have the big fish Edu Tech startup
Baiju last month a US court ruled that
the company defrauded investors by Jews
is also being accused of
misappropriating loans nearly $533
million of
it none of this bodess well for Indian
startups because all these stories are
splashed across newspapers rest assured
investors will be reading them and what
impression do you think they'll get that
India startup ecosystem is a bit shady
but that alone is not the problem here
the vision of Indian startups is also
being questioned that too by the
commerce minister of the country
what are India's startups doing
today we are focused on food delivery
apps turning unemployed youth into cheap
labor so the rich can get their
meals without going out of their house
so Indian startups face three complaints
number one they're not thinking big
enough enough of 10-minute deliveries
and food joints where are the deep tech
startups that's criticism number one
number two the existing startups may not
survive in the long run look at this
report it studied 146 startups including
your Zomato OEO PTM and 110 of them
incurred losses
so the business models have not been
perfected
yet finally complaint number three
financial irregularities way too many
cases are popping up blue Smart is just
the latest example of it the government
will have to play a role in addressing
all of this until now we handle startups
with kid gloves maybe it's time for a
bitter pill
tourists flooding the city of canals
clogging narrow streets and leaving
behind piles of garbage this is what
happens to Venice during the summer
season so the historic Italian city
wants to curb over tourism it has
introduced a tourist fee this is an
additional charge to dissuade visitors
day trippers will have to pay about $6
to enter Venice if they make a
lastminute plan the charge doubles and
this policy has invited backlash not
from the
tourists they don't seem to mind a few
extra bucks but from the residents of
Venice who say that the tourist fee does
not work and they're not completely
wrong but why is that why is it not
working and why is country after country
introducing it anyway here's a report
this is Venice an ancient Italian city
that finds itself on the bucket list of
many travelers roughly 30 million people
visit each
year on its busiest days this canal
crossed city swells with tourists who
clog its
streets so Venice is trying to fight
back last year it experimented with a
tourist fee it started charging people
to enter for a few months to dissuade
visitors during busy periods and now the
entrance fee is back the levy remains at
€5 or
$5.68 but this time last minute tourists
will have to pay
double this fee will apply on 54 dates
between April and July it applies only
to day trippers who make up the majority
of tourists to the city
the question is will this tourist fee
help the sinking city deter
visitors last year when Venice started
charging tourists a little extra it
didn't reduce their numbers in fact the
city hit a new record for visitors and
more than 3.9 million people stayed
overnight so the fee didn't have much of
an
impact and Venice authorities agree they
see that there's no magic wand solution
to the problem of over tourism so now
the goal behind levying an access fee
seems to have changed authorities are
now using it to fill their coffers last
year Venice rad in more than $2.7
million between April and July much more
than it had expected to and this is not
a new strategy places have long taxed
travelers and collected a fee upon their
visits
bhutan for instance started collecting
it since it opened to travelers in
1974 and it boasts the world's highest
tourist tax it stands at $100 per person
per day it's a steep price for most
travelers and the country has used it to
preserve its natural beauty and
traditional Buddhist culture
with over tourism choking cities and
travel booming after the pandemic
tourist tax has become the new
norm from Japan to Greece and Indonesia
to New Zealand country after country is
taxing tourists of course there are some
differences like in Spain some cities
levy the tax last year Barcelona earned
$14 million from
it in Japan specific tourist spots have
an additional fee like the country's
tallest peak Mount
Fuji this is an additional income for
the country and the tourists don't mind
it the fee rarely hurts their
pockets and experts say that it only
helps when tourists know where the money
is
going for instance last month Sikkim in
India began charging an entry fee it's
just about 50 rupees per tourist or
$0.59 authorities say that they want to
use it to enhance infrastructure like
road connectivity across the state
iceland charges tourists about $8 per
night as a fee then it declares where
the money is used like in building
infrastructure for whale watching or
maintaining hiking paths
while this is a good strategy to boost a
country's income it doesn't really curb
over
tourism so contrary to expectations the
opposition to these tourist taxes are
not from travelers but mainly from the
residents of these places who bear the
brunt of the crowds and the trail of
trash that they leave behind
so it's about time the governments
figure out alternative methods to curb
the problem because clearly charging
tourists a bit extra doesn't stop local
communities from paying the price for
over tourism
now we return to the US it is ramping up
its military presence not in Europe or
West Asia but on its southern border the
US Army is being deployed on its own
soil the Trump administration is
bringing out all the hardware we're
talking about battleh hardened troops
special forces spy planes armored drones
donald Trump has issued strict orders
only the army will control the southern
border do you know how many troops
you're talking about more than 10,000
this includes 7,000 Marines these are
soldiers who once fought in Iraq and
Afghanistan they are now patrolling
America's southern border they have gone
with the striker armored vehicles these
are basically mini tanks 50 of these
have been deployed and more are on the
way these are meant for offensive roles
like striking and surveillance they can
detect a mouse from a mile away
basically these are vehicles and troops
meant for war trump has deployed them to
the American border along with high
altitude drones which can track human
movement from far away the idea is to
secure the border both from land and air
the scale of the deployment is already
massive but the White House wants more
troops president Trump says only the
army can secure the
border but why is he doing this
apparently to control illegal
immigration border patrol agents have
been sidelined combat troops are the new
immigration officers but is this even
legal can the US military operate border
entry
points not particularly but there is a
loophole it was created on day one of
Trump's second
term the president declared a national
emergency at America's southern border
now this puts the region under executive
control the White House can deploy all
federal
reserves everything including the army
and that's how the military has taken
over by declaring the border one massive
army
base let me show you on the map how this
works trump wants the army to control
the border a specific part called the
Roosevelt Reservation now this is a
narrow strip of land it runs from
California to New Mexico it is 60 ft
wide and nearly 700 miles long that's
1,100 km long now this strip is called
the Roosevelt Reservation and now the
entire strip is an army base border
protection has become the Pentagon's job
this basically means two things one only
US troops are allowed there and two
anyone who crosses over now will be on
US military property domestic law does
not apply anymore offenders will face US
military laws they can be charged with
serious crimes like threatening national
security the US military has full
control over detentions and deportations
and their message is quite clear cross
at your own
risk did they need so much firepower to
secure the
border well here's what the numbers say
data this is what the data says border
crossings have plunged since Trump took
office they're down by almost 70%
so why is Trump increasing military
presence because border politics wins
votes republicans are worried about the
midterm elections next year these are
held in the middle of a presidential
term hence the name midterm trump's
party feels that tariffs will hurt them
so how do you garner support by flexing
military muscle and this is Trump's
go-to strategy he did this in the first
term as well by constantly talking about
a wall you may remember that Trump
wanted to build a wall along the Mexico
border well he was president for four
years and now he's president again but
that wall is still not complete he
deployed troops the last time too for
the same reasons to stop illegal
entry so the tact tactics have not
changed only this time the deployment is
bigger think about it the world's
biggest military is patrolling its own
backyard mexico is clearly unhappy they
have sent a memo to the Trump
administration
we sent a diplomatic memo in the sense
that it's an autonomous decision in
their own territory but we hope it will
not cross the border and that there will
continue to be the same collaboration
we've had so far in security we don't
know if that's to keep building the wall
or the objective but in any case we
always demand respect and coordination
the US Mexico border is no stranger to
walls but tanks and troops is taking it
to a whole different level trump calls
it national security his critics see it
as
overreach so will this secure America or
isolate
it for centuries now humans have created
stories of beings that may dwell in the
skies in the early 20th century our
ancestors had a hit a mysterious
milestone astronomers claimed to have
seen straight line features on
Mars this raised speculation that the
planet may be home to an advanced alien
species and it fueled the rise of pulp
science fiction with movies and books
about flying spaceships and blue aliens
now decades later scientists have found
the strongest evidence yet of life on
another
planet and it doesn't come from Mars or
any other planet in our solar system it
comes from a world that exists trillions
of kilometers away here's a report
the search for life beyond Earth is as
old as time it has led scientists to
explore many mysteries from the
possibility of an ocean on Mars to
clouds of gas on Venus but despite the
advances the movies with green aliens
the spottings of what look like flying
saucers Earth's inhabitants remain alone
into the universe well that may change
soon
a team of researchers at the University
of Cambridge has found new evidence and
it is the strongest indication yet of
extraterrestrial life not in our solar
system but on a massive
planet it is known as
K218b this planet is 2 and 12 times the
size of Earth it orbits a star 120 light
years away from us that is more than a
thousand trillion km a distance far
beyond what any human could travel in
their lifetime the Cambridge team has
been studying this planet's atmosphere
using the James Web Space Telescope this
telescope is so powerful it can analyze
the composition of a planet's atmosphere
from the light that passes through and
scientists have been doing just that
repeatedly that's when they found signs
of molecules which have only one known
source on Earth and that is life
they found signs of dimethyl sulfid and
dimethyl dulfide on Earth certain forms
of algae produce these compounds which
then waft into the air and add to the
distinct odor of the sea i think the
only scenario that explains all of this
is one where it's a hyishen world that
is teeming with life and what is a
hyishen world it's an ocean covered
surface with a thin hydrogen-rich
atmosphere so and the ocean being
habitable the word hyen is a port mantto
of hydrogen and oxygen no matter how
many times scientists revisited their
readings they found strong signals
leading to the presence of high seas
brimming with life on the
planet in fact they were surprised by
how much gas they detected in the
atmosphere it was thousands of times
higher than what is present on Earth and
this is a fascinating potential landmark
discovery
we say potential because this is a
tentative discovery both the team and
independent researchers stress that more
data is required to confirm the results
that said
this is a monumental uh discovery it is
very important but we also have to be
extremely cautious the reason is that
this is one of the biggest questions we
have asked as a species in all of
science in that we want to be really
really robust in establishing whether
this is actually life that we are seeing
this discovery is exciting in itself it
is a testament to the advances in
science and if proven to be true if
scientists confirm that there is life on
the planet experts say that it pretty
much confirms that life is very common
in the galaxy and that would be
completely out of this world quite
[Music]
literally scientists have not found a
panacea yet but Indians certainly have
it is called Doolo 650
now doulu is a branded paracetamol it is
used to treat mild pains and fevers but
in Indian households it is part of the
weekly diet cold headache throat pain
you name it the solution is to pop a
dooo a doctor recently posted about this
on social media he said Indians take do
650 like Cadbury gems what followed was
a meme fest while the jokes are quite
good it is also a timely reminder for us
do not self-medicate or pop
pills always consult your doctor with
that said enjoy the memes
[Music]
i know
[Applause]
[Music]
for heat
[Music]
heat heat
[Music]
and now it's time for bandit shots
images that tell the
story in Argentina retirees clash with
security forces in Buuna Cyrus ukrainian
military drones deliver Easter cakes to
the frontline soldiers and wings suit
flyers wow spectators in southwest China
finally we're taking you back in history
on this day in 1975 the Kair Rouge
seized Nonpen the Kam Rouge wanted to
create a communist agrarian utopia over
the next four years nearly 2 million
Cambodians died from starvation torture
and mass killings the regime's reign of
terror ended in 1979 when Vietnam
invaded Cambodia we're leaving you on
that note thank you for watching we'll
see you tomorrow
thank you
[Music]
[Music]
hurry hurry hurry
[Music]
[Music]
i'm Slava
[Music]
up
[Music]
heat hey heat hey heat