14-04-2025

hello namaskar This is first post and
you're watching Vantage with me Pali
Sharma
[Music]
[Music]
[Music]
It's the start of a new week and we are
once again diving into a world on edge
Kicking off with a seismic shift in
Washington Has President Donald Trump
blinked in the US China trade war why
has he rolled back tariffs on technology
products is this a win for Xi Jinping
what is the Chinese president up to he's
touring Southeast Asia as we speak We
will tell you why Meanwhile top banks
and billionaires are sounding an alarm
Trump's policies could plunge the US
into something worse than a recession
Markets are still feeling the heat Gold
is soaring and investors are scurrying
Where should you put your money in these
turbulent times we will discuss that
Also in focus what's the new rule in the
US that says foreign nationals must
register or face deportation Why Trump
has called the latest Russian strike on
Ukraine a mistake What is the story of
the US teen charged with killing his
parents in a chilling plot to
assassinate the US
president what do satellite images
reveal about North Korea's largest most
advanc advanced
warship what is India's new laser weapon
that puts the country in an elite club
and all about the booming panic industry
that is selling doomsday bunkers and
flammable modes Are these the ultimate
safe havens or just fear-driven
fantasies we'll discuss all of this this
and more coming up The headlines
first Donald Trump hosts the president
of El Salvador The self-proclaimed
world's coolest dictator is now a key
ally of the US president who has been
sending immigrants to a notorious
Salvadoran prison Trump claims the
deportes are gang members but his
administration has mistakenly deported a
Maryland resident to El
Salvador Indian fugitive Mahul Choky
arrested in Belgium The diamond merchant
fled India in 2018 The Indian government
has sent a request for Chok's
extradition He is accused of defrauding
the Punjab National Bank of more than a
billion dollars His nephew Nirv Modi is
also accused in the case He was arrested
in the UK in 2019 and remains in custody
there Gabon's Ha chief wins the
presidential election Provisional
results give him 90% of the vote In
August 2023 the Honta leader ended more
than five decades of rule by the Bongo
family promising to return the central
African country to democratic
rule The Maldives attempts to phase out
smoking plans to make it illegal for
anyone currently under 19 years to buy
cigarettes A proposed law will prohibit
the sale of tobacco products to those
born after January 2007 This would
effectively prevent future generations
from
smoking and pop star Katy Perry
completes her foray into space on an
all-woman flight Five others including
Jeff Bezos's fiance were part of the
Blue Origin crew The entire journey
lasted around 11 minutes This is the
first allwoman space crew since Russia's
Valentina Terishova's historic solo
flight in 1963
[Music]
So if you look at that China first row
China 67% that's tariffs charged to the
USA including currency manipulation and
trade barriers
[Music]
[Music]
is announced tariffs on things like
iPhones tablets Well that's going to be
announced very soon and we'll uh we'll
be discussing it
US President Donald Trump is backing
down His tariff war is unraveling
forcing him to retreat The US has
announced yet another exemption and this
time it is China that is getting relief
Chinese exports to the United States
face a 145% tariff but now a range of
Chinese electronics are off the hook
This includes stuff like smartphones and
laptops they won't face the 145% import
tax Interestingly the pullback was not
announced by President Trump It was done
by the US Customs They released an
exemption notice a notice stating which
products were exempt from tariffs And it
came as great news for big tech They can
now breathe easy Without this relief
prices of gadgets would have skyrocketed
Everything from memory chips and solar
cells to semiconductors would have cost
more
There were about 20 product categories
all targeted by Trump's tariffs Their
prices were were set to surge Companies
like Apple Microsoft and Nvidia had
raised concerns In fact Apple was
resorting to extreme measures They
airlifted one and a half million iPhones
from
India Apple did it in record time to
beat the tariffs to make sure that the
phones were shipped before the tariffs
kicked in We told you about this last
week These iPhones were made in India
Usually it takes 30 hours for customs to
clear such consignments 30 hours But
this one was fasttracked It was
dispatched within 6 hours All because
Apple wanted to beat Trump's tariff
deadline But for the moment they can
relax Washington has given some relief
even though it's temporary The US
president says no one can escape his
tariffs Let me quote There was no
exception Nobody is getting off the hook
This is what he wrote on Truth
Social He reminded everyone that other
duties on Chinese products still remain
like the 20% tariffs related to fentinel
This was announced soon after Trump took
office And now he's planning a new set
of tariffs a different category
altogether Listen to this the tariffs
will be in place uh in the notistant
future because as you know like we did
with steel like we did with automobiles
like we did with aluminum which are now
fully on we'll be doing that with
semiconductors with chips and numerous
other things and that'll take place in
the very near future
The US president has ordered a national
security investigation It will focus on
semiconductors and the entire electronic
supply chain Trump's commerce secretary
has confirmed this That's Howard Lutnik
He says new tariffs are coming in two
months and they will target high-end
imports from China
Remember those products are going to be
part of the
semiconductor sectoral tariffs which are
coming So all those products are going
to come under semiconductors and they're
going to have a special focused type of
tariff to make sure that those products
get reshored We need to have
semiconductors We need to have chips and
we need to have flat panels We need to
have these things made in America
So Trump and his team are going out of
their way to convince everyone that this
is not a retreat It is more like a
reshuffle That their policy direction
remains the same But it's amply clear
what this move is about The US is taking
a strategic timeout and it comes after
Trump's U-turn last week when he froze
all the tariffs for 90 days All but
China He said America's trade partners
will face a blanket tariff of 10% for 3
months nothing more than that only 10%
till July But he did not extend this
relief to China On the contrary he
raised tariffs on China at least twice
in two days By the end of it US tariffs
on China stood at a whopping
145% And why was China singled out
because they chose to retaliate They hit
back at the US with tariffs of their
own So Trump said China was forcing his
hand It makes no sense but that's what
he said And he raised tariffs to 145% He
also said that China wants a deal with
him but they don't know how to ask for
it That was last week Now suddenly he's
climbing down basically relenting under
pressure because Trump's tariffs crashed
the markets They caused losses worth
trillions of dollars Wall Street was up
in arms CEOs were predicting a recession
and investors were losing money It took
all of eight days for Trump to shift
course The White House has tried to spin
it as smart and strategic But the world
is not buying the spiel America's
credibility has taken a hit Investor
confidence is falling The dollar has
tanked to a six-month low And Trump's
utterances are keeping investors on
edge The president is playing hopscotch
with the economy jumping from one threat
to another only to stumble and retreat
[Music]
So Trump is putting caveats on his trade
war The question is why after all the
bravado why is he backpeddling now
mainly because of two reasons The first
is America's dependency on China and the
second is public backlash We look at
both these factors Electronics is the
biggest category of US imports from
China Your smartphones your laptops and
computers these make up 20% of the total
imports from China Imagine a 145% tariff
on this trade It would have made
electronics unaffordable for
Americans Just consider the iPhone The
16 Pro Max sells for $1,200 The tariffs
would have increased that price by a lot
to almost
$2,150 per phone And why is that because
China assembles almost 90% of all phones
It is basically a monopoly Same with
computers China makes 81% of laptops and
personal
computers So if you tariff China all of
this becomes more expensive A lot more
expensive American tech companies would
have raised the price of their products
We're talking about a visible and sharp
hike here And Trump cannot afford that
right
now Which is the second
reason Around 56% Americans disapprove
of Trump's handling of the economy
That's seven points up from last month
Clearly this is a tariff effect The
White House is trying to spin it as a
master stroke but ordinary people are
not buying it They can see the wild
swings in the stock market They can see
the public U-turns of their president
and they can also see prices
rising Perhaps this is what prompted
Trump to exempt certain
goods He has not explained why he did it
He simply attributed it attributed the
exemptions to obvious reasons 10% floor
Mr President you think pretty close Yeah
pretty close It could be a couple of
exemptions for you know obvious reasons
but I would say 10% is a floor
Could we see more such exemptions well
it's certainly possible Trump's
exemptions only apply to the 145% rate
His fentinel tariffs still apply on
Chinese electronics and that's around
20% You won't see this impact
immediately Most companies will have
stock lying around For example Apple has
inventory for almost 6 weeks But what
happens after that after that prices
will increase and that is when Trump
will face a reckoning He was elected on
the promise of lowering prices If the
opposite happens expect a
backlash And that's just the start The
tariffs could hurt the economy beyond
inflation Top banks are predicting a
recession in 2025 in this year
Billionaire Ray Dalio is predicting
something worse than a
recession Now Dalio as you would know is
a head fund manager He founded
Bridgewater Associates in 1975 Today it
manages around $92 billion in
assets And Dalio feels something bad is
coming something worse than a recession
as he put it
What would that be a breakdown of the
current global order He feels emerging
powers will bring down the postworld war
system and this would create major
conflicts Basically a breakdown in
global
relations I know it sounds far-fetched
but Ray Dalio has a knack for these kind
of this kind of things He predicted the
recession of
2008 and this time he says the US is
very close to another
one All of this will build pressure on
Donald Trump His tariffs were supposed
to shock the world into action but that
may not be possible anymore For starters
the shock effect is almost gone These
exemptions show that Trump is also
worried He's concerned about the
blowback on US companies and consumers
Rest assured other countries will
capitalize on this Secondly there's a
lot of confusion We are seeing
conflicting messages from Washington
Last week the White House was pushing
for iPhones made in America Listen to
this But iPhones specifically is that
something that he thinks is the kind of
technology that can move to the US
absolutely He believes we have the labor
we have the workforce we have the
resources to do it And as you know Apple
has invested $500 billion here in the
United States So if Apple didn't think
the United States could do it they
probably wouldn't have put up that big
chunk of
change Well then why exempt tariffs on
them why stick with Chinese-made
iPhones all this confusion will weaken
Trump's position It gives the impression
that there is no method to this madness
that Trump is simply going with the
flow I'm afraid such a strategy does not
qualify as the art of the deal
If you're confused do not worry You're
not alone The entire world is scratching
its head The US China trade war is not
for the faint of heart Since February
it's been a roller coaster Trump slaps
on tariffs China fires back Trump
doubles down China hits harder And so
the cycle spun for two chaotic
months Trump expected China to panic He
wanted Xi Jinping to call him but China
did not call They did not blink And in
the end Donald Trump had to fold
Honestly I'm very comfortable now but
I've always gotten along well with
President Xi We had a good relationship
very good And I think something positive
is going to come out of that
Like I told you before he's rolled back
the tariffs on electronics your
smartphones and computers These are
major items that Beijing imports Beijing
exports to the US So does that mean it
is advantage China did Xi Jinping win
this first round
it sure looks that way Beijing clearly
had the upper hand here But what happens
next will be equally important Will
there be round two it's hard to predict
with Trump Although Xi Jinping has made
his stance clear he does not want this
He is working on alternatives The
Chinese president is touring Southeast
Asia He is in Vietnam as we speak His
next stops will be Malaysia and Cambodia
Before taking off for Hanoi Xi Jinping
wrote an editorial Let me quote from
what he said trade war and tariff war
will produce no winner and protectionism
will lead
nowhere He has a point even though it's
a bit rich coming from him China has
long weaponized trade but now their
president says trade wars have no
winners and China does not want to
escalate it further That's what Xi
Jinping is saying But look closer and
there's a much bigger message at
play President Trump and the US have
thrown the world into a spin Markets are
tanking allies are scrambling deals are
being chased and the result is global
uncertainty And in the middle of the
storm China sees an opening While
America looks erratic China wants to
look responsible It wants to project
itself as the reliable
power Xi Jinping is promising stability
and
investments And that's what this
Southeast Asia tour is all about He's
already in Vietnam Like I said it is
China's biggest trade partner in the
region She wants to elevate those ties
They're expected to sign a total of 40
agreements and from there it's a quick
flight to Malaysia It is the Chinese
president's first visit to the country
since
2013 Now Beijing is Malaysia's largest
trading partner So the focus here again
will be on trade on how Malaysian
companies can get get better access to
China From there she will go to Cambodia
Again the timing is worth noting The
Chinese president will be in Cambodia on
the 17th of April That's the week of the
kamar new year Usually everything is
shut during this time Offices and
schools are closed It's a national
holiday But this time Nom Pen is making
an exception It is rolling out the red
carpet for the Chinese president And
that tells you everything Southeast Asia
is rattled by this trade war and Trump's
tariffs of threat of higher tariffs
So it is turning to
China which by the way is not a safe
option either A because it's China it is
the opposite of reliable And B siding
with China could earn them Trump's wroth
aka more
tariffs And this is something that
Vietnam is especially worried about It
is wary of looking like China's back
door of being used to ship Chinese
goods That's one point of concern
There's also the fear of cheap Chinese
goods They could flood these markets and
kill local players So it's a delicate
balance for Southeast Asia As for Xi
Jinping he may have won this round but
the game is far from over The US is
still holds the most powerful weapon in
this trade war
Unpredictability Speaking of
unpredictability it often means bad news
for investors Policies keep changing
markets keep swinging and every move
becomes
riskier So what should you do at a time
like this where should you put your
money a lot of people are turning to
gold It's a time- tested strategy during
periods of uncertainty because gold is a
safe haven When the economy is dull
investors flock to
gold and in the process they drive up
its price Now look at the price of gold
Look at how it has changed since January
78,000 rupees for 10 grams at the start
of this year 78,000 and now it is more
than 96,000 rupees for 10 grams Stocks
have fallen during this time but gold
prices have hit an all-time
high So should you join the buying
spree it's always good to diversify your
portfolio As for returns that depends on
a lot of things If the trade uncertainty
rises so will gold prices they will also
go up with uncertainty But if Trump and
China reach a deal then the rally in
gold will likely
end So you could say that gold is
hostage to this trade
war Another option is stocks Now before
you go into shock let me explain why I'm
not talking about wild bets on the
market index Those will remain volatile
for a while I'm talking about calculated
long-term investments Several sectors
are insulated from this chaos Your job
is to pick the right ones For example
companies linked to say railway
infrastructure no tariff disruptions
massive state support and a permanently
growing market It's a safe bet during
such times During a bull run you have
more room to make mistakes But right now
you don't So put science over your
instincts Look at the financial health
of companies Look at how much debt they
have Look at their exposure to the
global market Only then should you make
your bets
Also look out for companies trading at
discounts Maybe you've been eyeing a
stock for quite some time now You've
done your due diligence as well but the
price was always too high Well now's
your chance Most stocks have fallen in
the last 3 months So if you can scoop up
those solid
companies I know it's hard to put these
tactics to use especially when your
hard-earned money is at stake But the
key is to think long term Do not panic
Do your homework and turn this chaos
into an opportunity A lot of you may
find this too risky You may prefer safer
bets like a bank
deposit but those are on the chopping
board India's central bank recently cut
lending rates and since then many banks
have slashed interest on their deposits
SBI has reduced rates by 10 basis points
Bank of India by up to 25 basis points
HDFC also by 25 basis points and Yes
Bank again by 25 basis points They have
cut lending
rates They have cut interest rates So if
you are planning on saving these cuts
will affect you Your returns will
basically be
less Does that mean that you should
ditch deposits absolutely not An ideal
portfolio is diversified It will have a
bit of everything bonds stocks gold
currency deposits all of
it The idea is to not put all your eggs
in one
basket This advice is extremely
important right now because a
diversified portfolio will shield you
from the
volatility Just consider the last 20
days what to buy or sell like that to
your financial adviser But I will give
you two broad suggestions Number one is
to obviously diversify Like I said don't
put all your eggs in one basket And
number two be focused and patient
Investment is always a long game Do not
be flustered by one or two volatile
months Instead make calculated moves
There is always an opportunity to make
money Your job is to spot it and wait
for it
Now let's talk about
immigration Just like tariffs it's a
policy priority for the Trump
administration They've launched one of
its harshest their harshest crackdowns
yet They've introduced new rules for all
foreign nationals They must register
with the government If you're staying
for more than 30 days in the United
States it applies to you Residents with
valid visas green card holders even
children everyone must register If they
don't they may face fines jail or even
deportation Even legal immigrants must
carry documents at all
times Clearly the administration is
serious about enforcing all this and
there's nothing wrong in going after
illegal
immigrants But these moves are a
sweeping drag net They put all
immigrants at risk not just the
undocumented ones And they're sending
shock waves through communities across
America Uh here's a report
Donald Trump's fight against illegal
immigration has taken an ugly
turn The US government has introduced
new rules for foreign nationals They
mandate every one of them must now
register with the government if they
plan to live in the United States for
more than 30
days What if they don't comply
the penalties are harsh including jail
and even
deportation No one has been spared The
new rules apply to everyone Visitors
with valid visas green card holders even
students and children The directive is
based on a World War II era
law Violators face up to $5,000 in fines
or 30 days in jail In serious cases
violators could face a lifetime ban from
entering the United States again
Children must register by their 14th
birthday They must also provide
fingerprints New arrivals after the 11th
of April have just 30 days to
comply This is not just a crackdown on
illegal immigration It's a crackdown on
all immigrants Even legal residents will
live under threat now
They must carry proof of legal status at
all times One missed step and they risk
being treated like criminals
Civil rights groups tried to stop these
new rules but a judge dismissed the
challenge He said the groups lacked
standing
So the policy now stands and the
consequences are unfolding fast
International students need to follow
every single visa rule to the letter
Jobless H1B visa holders risk being
labeled unlawful after their grace
period ends And if they delay or make
any mistake they could end up being
deported
So what's the way out us immigration
officials are encouraging
self-deportation and they're going the
extra mile with this They're offering
immigrants their choice of flights Some
may even get help with their
ticket Those waiting to hear back on
their status might be compelled to take
this route because the punishment can be
brutal Legal experts argue that the
policy is overboard unconstitutional and
dangerous
It treats millions of legal residents
like suspects and it opens the door to
racial profiling and
abuse The Trump administration however
has defended the move They call it
enforcement They call it necessary But
this is neither These rules are an
overreach A policy built on fear not
facts
Enforcing immigration laws is fair But
turning every immigrant into a target is
not It's not security It's not reform
It's chaos disguised as control
[Music]
It was Palm Sunday in Ukraine People
gathered with crosses and palm branches
The mood was peaceful until two missiles
struck the city of Sunumi 34 people were
killed including two children 117 others
were wounded It was the deadliest attack
of this year
The number of killed and wounded on the
street in public transport in cars that
were passing by at the moment proves
that it was a terrorist attack solely
against civilian population The same was
in Civ enemies media resources made
statements that it was an attack on some
madeup military to justify that horrible
attack But the attacks did not stop
there The Ukrainian capital Kiev was
also hit by strikes One missile struck
the warehouse of an Indian
pharmaceutical company It is called
Kusum It is one of the largest farmer
firms in Ukraine It came under attack
Ukrainian President Zilinski also
slammed Moscow He called them and I
quote filthy
scum He also called for a global
response saying that only pressure can
stop attacks like
these Only pressure only decisive action
can change this Every Russian ballistic
missile every cruise missile every
Russian shahid every guided bomb strike
not only our people not only our
communities but also diplomacy and the
political efforts of everyone who is
truly trying to bring this to an end
European leaders rushed to back him
French President Macron said Russia was
choosing to continue the war UK Prime
Minister Kia Star said he was appalled
and Poland took a dig at Russia But the
United States did not join them It took
a completely different position Listen
to this Do you have a reaction to
Russia's Palm Sunday attack i think it
was terrible and I was told they made a
mistake Uh but I think it's a horrible
thing I think the whole war is a
horrible thing I think the war is for
that war to have started
is an abuse of
power This country would have never
allowed that war to have started if I
were president
So Trump was asked about the attack He
called it terrible but he also called it
a mistake Was it a mistake by Russia how
was this mistake made he was asked these
questions again and this is what the US
president said
They made a mistake in the attack He
said they made you were told they made a
mistake You mean it was they made a
mistake I believe it was Look you're
going to ask them This is Biden's war
This is not my war
They made a mistake You got to ask them
That's what he said Interestingly on
Friday his envoy was in Russia I'm
talking about Steve Witkov Trump's
special envoy to West Asia who happens
to be at the forefront of the engagement
with Russia He was in St Petersburg
where he met Russian President Vladimir
Putin On the agenda was a ceasefire The
meeting lasted for 4 and a half hours
The US did not comment on the outcome
Now fun fact Trump has a special envoy
to Ukraine His name is Kth Kellogg The
Russians do not like him So it is
Wititov who talks to them Anyway Kellogg
made a suggestion over the weekend He
said Ukraine can be partitioned like
Germany What does that mean after the
second world war Germany was split into
two East Germany was controlled by the
Soviet Union West Germany was controlled
by the Allied powers the US the UK and
France So Kellogg suggested a similar
arrangement for
Ukraine One side controlled by Russia
the other side controlled by by Britain
and France British and French troops
rather Of course the idea did not go
down too well neither with Ukraine nor
with Europe Zalinski had just one appeal
for US President Trump Visit Ukraine to
see the
devastation We don't know if Trump will
take it up but there is one leader who's
rushing to support Ukraine and that is
Friedrich Mets He is Germany's incoming
chancellor He called the recent attacks
by Russia a war crime He believes that
Ukraine needs help and that Germany can
provide it How in the form of Taurus
missiles These are advanced
air-to-surface cruise missiles They have
an intelligent warhead system which
means that they can be used for precise
targets like your bunkers or bridges Now
Kiev has been asking Germany for these
missiles for quite some time now But
Berlin has been hesitant And that's
because of two reasons One taurus
missiles are long range They have a
range of over 500 km Germany was worried
that Kiev would use these missiles to
strike deep inside
Russia Concern number two Germany would
get dragged into the
war To use the Taurus missiles Ukraine
would need German support and Berlin was
wary of getting involved But now Merz is
willing to do it on one condition Of
course it will be in coordination with
European allies Basically Germany won't
go in alone
But will these missiles really help
Ukraine militarily yes Taurus can go
where most Ukrainian missiles cannot
They can take down Russian targets But
here's a question that no one wants to
ask at this point Is this too little too
late ukraine has been asking for it for
a year now It could have slowed the
Russian offensive but it's getting the
missiles only now and that to amid the
ceasefire
talks Also how do you strike a deal
while striking deep inside enemy
territory
the Taurus missiles may give Kiev a
strategic edge for a while but they
would also push Moscow further away from
the table And that is the biggest
dilemma right now Will peace come
through diplomacy or will it come
through
deterrence it's a choice that Ukraine
and its Western allies must make sooner
rather than
later Our next story tonight is about a
high school student from Wisconsin
Earlier this year he allegedly killed
both his
parents And now this case has gotten the
FBI involved That's the Federal Bureau
of Investigation They are probing the
case because killing his parents was
only half the plan According to fresh
police reports this teen fatally shot
his parents so that he could get enough
money and
autonomy to kill the US President Donald
Trump and then overthrow his government
This is not a film story It happened in
Wisconsin USA Here's more
This is Nikita Kasab a 17-year-old from
Wisconsin When he failed to attend
school for 2 weeks local officials
visited his home And that's when they
found the bodies of his
parents Then one thing led to another
The teenager was arrested last month The
Federal Bureau of Investigation got
involved And now the missing links have
emerged The police believe that Casab
killed his mother and father on February
11th He allegedly shot them Both were
found dead from gunshots more than 2
weeks later on February 28th but the
suspect was not at home and the parents'
car was missing That evening the
officers found the vehicle with the
suspect driving it And that's not all
that was discovered
There was also $14,000 in cash in the
car more than $14,000 worth of jewelry
and
a.357 Magnum revolver that was purchased
by the high
schooler In Wisconsin itself the teen
faces nine felony charges including two
counts of firstdegree murder and two
counts of hiding a corpse But that's not
what the FBI is investigating
They're looking at three additional
charges: presidential assassination
conspiracy and use of weapons of mass
destruction
Confused well according to the police
the fatal shootings were part of a
larger plan The teenager killed his
parents in an attempt to obtain the
money and autonomy that he thought he
needed to kill the president of the
United States Donald Trump and then
overthrow his government
The teen identified with a right-wing
terrorist network called the Order of
Nine Angels This is a network of
neo-Nazis who have racially motivated
extremist views The police found images
and praise of Adolf Hitler on Casab's
phone along with instructions on how to
make bombs and a self-described
manifesto which talked about
assassinating the
president Why apparently the teen
believed that this would ferment a
political revolution in the United
States and he thought he could get away
with it The alleged double murder of his
parents was an effort to obtain the
money to both make the attack happen and
then to run
away Authorities say that the teen paid
for a drone and explosives with the
money he stole and had plans to escape
to Ukraine
Now this incident may surprise you for
more reasons than one Since the spike
during the pandemic era violent crime
has actually seen a downward trend
across the United States But a number of
cities are reporting a new rise in crime
that is among the youth In many cases
authorities claim that social media and
smartphone use play a key role And this
applies to cases outside the United
States as well 60% of teenagers have
reported seeing real life violence on
social media platforms Plus organized
gang have tapped these platforms They
are grooming young
adults introducing them to violence
illicit weapons and drug
markets Social media has also become a
hub for neo-Nazis especially Instagram
These groups are recruiting young people
and spreading propaganda And they
exploit all kinds of easy technology to
do this From gaming to social media
voice chats and online movie
clubs As children become increasingly
isolated social media algorithms are
exploiting their vulnerabilities While
there's no singular culprit in this
broad cultural issue the lines between
right and wrong have been blurred by
vastly unregulated violent and hateful
content on the internet And there's no
question that social media is making an
already grim situation
worse Our next story is from North Korea
hermit kingdom under the iron grip of
Kim Jong-un
They've been on an unboxing spree
revealing a new weapon almost every
month So why should April be any
different this time it is a new warship
North Korea's largest one yet We have
satellite images They show the sheer
size of the missile frig It is estimated
to be 140 m long Let me give you some
perspective The world's largest frigot
is about 151 m in length What North
Korea is building would be 10 m short of
that
So this ship is going to be massive and
nothing like the ones that North Korea
has operated till now Clearly this is
not just a frigot It is a
statement But to whom and at what
cost here's what we know so far The
warship is being built at the NO
shipyard That's 60 km south of Pyongyang
the capital of North Korea The ship is
massive 140 m long We already told you
about that But what does it mean what
does a bigger ship mean it means bigger
weapons Think missiles torpedoes and
artillery guns Experts say the ship will
have vertical missile silos which means
it can carry ballistic missiles Now
remember North Korea tested a hypersonic
ballistic missile this year in the month
of January These missiles are almost
impossible to shoot down For now North
Korea can only launch them from land Kim
Jong-un wants to change that And Q North
Korea's largest warship Experts say the
ship could carry hypersonic ballistic
missiles So how is Kim Jong-un going to
pull this
off enter Russia North Korea's closest
allies Relations have deepened since
last year Russian President Putin met
Kim Jong-un This happened in June 2024
Putin traveled to North Korea after a
gap of 24 years
The two leaders then signed a
partnership agreement They agreed to
mutual defense
commitments Basically Russia and North
Korea will defend each other in
war Pyongyang is already playing its
part Thousands of North Korean troops
are fighting on behalf of
Russia And what is Kim getting in return
technology like this latest warship
Reports say the frigot has Moscow's
fingerprints all over it And this has
become a trend Last month North Korea
revealed AI powered suicide
drones It happened in Kim Jong-un's
presence Experts say the drones were
Russian copies Even South Korea suspects
this The unveiled airborne early warning
aircraft today by North Korea still
requires further evaluation in terms of
its operational effectiveness and
utility We believe that the internal
devices and components may have
connections to Russia and the model
itself is an upgraded version of the one
that North Korea previously
owned So North Korea is giving its
troops to Russia In return they're
getting technology This is fueling Kim
Jong-un's war
ambitions North Korea continues to
modernize missiles drones warships you
name it Kim Jong-un is clearly preparing
for something
Where does that leave South Korea
definitely closer to the US and Japan
Seoul and Tokyo will look to bolster
defenses which means buying more weapons
from
Washington So basically the entire
region is staring at an arms race And
the timing is important The US is
widening its Indo-Pacific footprint A
new war command is coming up in Japan
We've told you about this on this show
It is part of Donald Trump's strategy
against
China but it also caters to North Korea
The US wants more troops and bases in
Japan for two reasons One China's
increasing military drills around Taiwan
And two North Korea's rapid military
expansion not to mention the frequent
ballistic missile tests and the
unveiling of all these new
weapons And now North Korea is building
its largest warship All of this is
happening despite dozens of sanctions
which raises the obvious question what
is coming next will it be a nuclear
submarine or an aircraft carrier kim
Jong-un's priority is more weapons But
in a country where millions are
starving this largest warship is nothing
more than a vanity
project
Picture this A swarm of drones buzzing
towards Indian skies Then a flash of
light precise silent and deadly In
seconds the drones are shot
down This is not an idea from a
fictional thriller This is India's new
reality India has successfully test
fired a homegrown laser
weapon The laser beam burst the targets
into flames And all of this happened
with pinpoint
accuracy India is now part of an elite
elite club Only the US Russia and China
have tested such a weapon Our next
report has more On the 13th of April
India entered an elite club of nations
for the first time ever India showcased
its futuristic warfare
capabilities It fired a directed energy
weapon In short a laser weapon The test
was undertaken in the state of Andra
Pradesh The Defense Research and
Development Organization or DRDO
conducted a test Here's how it went
down DRDO officials brought out the
laser weapon to the testing
field And then they launched the targets
First a single drone was shot down Then
a swarm of drones were brought down And
all of this happened in the blink of an
eye You blink you miss but the laser
doesn't The weapon that was showcased is
a 30 kowatt directed energy weapon It is
developed and designed by the DRDO and
is completely made in India It is
basically a laser with multiple cameras
and sensors The sensors and cameras
first detect a target This could be a
single drone or a swarm of drones Then
the weapon fires quick bursts of light
energy or lasers to cut through any
target causing them to burst into
flames India has now entered an elite
group of nations Only the United States
China and Russia are known to use lasers
to neutralize aerial threats India is
now the fourth and this is just the
beginning The DRDO is planning on making
a much larger laser weapon which will
also be put on warships and aircraft and
DRDO officials say it will be India's
Star Wars like capability We are also
working on other high energy systems
like high energy microwaves
electromagnetic pulse So we are working
on several technologies which will give
us the Star Wars capability
So why is this a big deal because drones
have become the go-to weapons of choice
They dominate the modern-day battlefield
They are cheap reliable agile and deadly
But defending against drones remains a
challenge Militaries would often resort
to anti- drone systems These are large
weapons that cost at least a few
thousand They use high frequencies and
microwaves to bring down drones and they
have something called as the cool off
period which means that after some time
the anti- drone systems need a break
That is not the case with laser weapons
Even though a laser is a concentration
of extreme energy the system itself uses
less energy to fire lasers compared to
other anti- drone
systems So lasers can be fired at
multiple targets and still not be at the
risk of overheating India now has an
effective solution to combating drones
That is bad news for its neighbors
particularly Pakistan In recent months
drone incursions in India's border
regions have increased but deploying
multiple jammers and anti- drone systems
remains a challenge for Indian armed
forces So the laser weapon system is the
answer and a big boost to India's
defense
arsenal And now the perfect story for a
Monday When I say doomsday bunker what
do you picture
probably an underground survival shelter
with flashlights and canned food But
that is so basic Doomsday prep is a big
business in today's world and it's it is
growing rapidly It is set to reach about
$3 billion in 2030 and it offers
everything from escape tunnels to
bunkers with AI technology and flammable
moes The demand for these apocalyptic
bunkers is so high that their air
filtration systems have become scarce
Now to give you an idea they cost up to
$10,000 So what's behind this bunker
fever mostly
billionaires They're not happy with your
run-of-the-mill panic rooms So they're
building underground tunnels connecting
bunkers to their homes And they don't
just have survival food and first aid
boxes These bunkers come with parking
spaces gyms home theaters and green
houses Many boast of secret panels as
well because who doesn't like a dinner
party tour for a house straight out of a
Bond movie According to reports some
panic houses come with secret panels
that lead to a shooting range or a
moving bookcase that hides crucial
supplies If you think this is a bit much
know that there are doomsday homes with
a phone booth where if a code is entered
on its keypad the glass windows turn
opaque and a black wall opens to reveal
a basement complex
But sometimes the doomsday she bang is
not enough in itself The rich are also
spending on extreme forms of protection
like hiring Navy Seals to protect their
compounds Some luxury bunkers in the US
come with their own moes but not the old
school kind These modes function like a
giant microwave that can be lit on fire
Of course the more extreme the
fortification the higher the cost Most
projects start at $10 million and
regularly exceed $100 million After all
preparing for the apocalypse does not
come cheap But many are willing to make
the investment especially in the United
States Over the last year Americans have
spent about 11 billion collectively
This mostly includes the rich and famous
like Mark Zuckerberg who is reportedly
building a 5,000 ft 5,000 ft²
underground shelter in Hawaii with a
price tag of more than $270 million or
what Zuckerberg calls a little shelter a
hurricane shelter whatever whatever
indeed but he is hardly the only muggle
enamored by bunkers former PayPal
co-founder Peter Teal has tried and
failed to build one in New Zealand
former Microsoft oft co-founder Bill
Gates reportedly has underground bunkers
in all his homes Apparently Kim
Kardashian and Tom Cruz have gone bunker
shopping too And this craze is not
limited to the to the United States
Reports say they have takers in European
countries too like Germany and the Czech
Republic where old missile silos are
converted into bunkers with natural
light imitating
technology So the wealthy can feel right
at home That said the rich do not have a
monopoly over panic Across Europe and
the US there are down market customers
preparing for doomsday So companies are
jumping on the trend in this case too
and they're designing smaller affordable
panic rooms or even installations in
people's homes like secret gun
closets Amid this doom boom the market
for panic rooms is set to exceed $1
billion again by 2030 So here's the
question What is behind this panic rush
experts say there are many reasons The
bunker craze was accelerated by the
Wuhan virus pandemic but a range of
fears have fueled the fire From fears of
a nuclear war to cyber attacks to
financial collapse and civil unrest So
people are leveling up to protect
themselves And those who can afford to
are going one step ahead and panic
buying into the so-called panic industry
[Music]
It's league cricket season in this part
of the world I'm sure you know the IPL
is underway But guess what pakistan's
cricket league is it also began this
Friday It's also on One of the first
matches was played between Mulan and
Karach The team from Karach ended up
chasing 235 runs in just 19 overs All
thanks to English batter James Vince
After the match a special gift was
awaiting him Not a cash prize not a
medal not a car or sports bike James
Vince got a hair dryer from his
franchise You have to see this
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
Heat Heat
[Music]
[Applause]
Megaribu
[Music]
Mommy papa
[Music]
Now it's time for vantage shots images
that tell the story Hundreds celebrate
Palm Sunday in Jerusalem amid the war
Water fights take over the streets of
Bangkok as Thailand marks the Sunran
festival and a rare blue gold conduct
diamond weighing 32 carats may fetch
around $50 million in an auction that is
around 430 cr rupees Finally we taking
you back in history on this day in 1988
the Soviet Union agreed to withdraw from
Afghanistan after 9 years Their aim was
to establish a pro-soiet regime in Kabul
but the Soviet forces faced fierce
resistance from the Afghan mujahedin
fighters who were covertly armed by the
US Pakistan and others We're leaving you
on that note Thank you for watching
We'll see you tomorrow
[Music]
Huh
stop
[Music]
Glory
to God
[Music]
[Music]
I want
to like that
Today
[Music]
[Music]